Ctrl + Alt for to escapte the focus of VM.

Rescue disk is used when the system doens't boot at all.

The rescue disk is on the installation disk.

1. Boot form installation disk:
    Press Esc from the very beginning. You need to do it quick, before the normal boot memu starts.
    From the new boot menu, select "CD-ROM device"
    
2. Select "Troubleshooting" from the menu item, then select "rescue a Red Hat Enterpsise linux system"

This option is used most frequently. Other options are:

Install Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 in Basic graphics mode: 
    It reinstalls the machine. It's your last resort if all of the troubleshootings won't work.

Run a Memory Test:
    This is used to mark a bad memroy chip when memory has errors, so the machine can boot from other good areas in the memory.
    
Boot from Local Drive:
    It's used when you cannot boot from GRUB on the hard disk. It'll install the GRUB 2 from the hard disk.

3. After select "rescue a Red Hat Enterpsise linux system", Linux is going to find an installed linux system (rescue system) and mount it under /mnt/sysimage. 

Here's the prompt showing up when it's finished loading:
    The rescue environment will tempt to find linux installation and mount it under /mnt/sysroot. You can make any change, choose 1 to proceed with this step. if this doesn't work, choose 3 to skip directly to a shell 

    1. continue
    2. read only mount
    3. skip to shell
    4. quit / reboot
    
    
Press 1 to accept the "Continue" option. 

Here comes another prompt:
    if you would like the root of your system to be the root of rescue system, run the following:
        chroot /mnt/sysroot
        
    when finished please exit the shell and your system will reboot.
    please press enter to get a shell.

Enter to access the rescue shell.

chroot(1) - Linux man page
Name
    chroot - run command or interactive shell with special root directory
Synopsis
    chroot [OPTION] NEWROOT [COMMAND [ARG]...]
    chroot OPTION

4. Now your system is accessible through /mnt/sysroot. 
Type "chroot /mnt/sysroot" to run command with the new root directory and get in to the root shell.
Now you can access all the tools that you need to repair the system.

If you don't change the root directory, any configuration update would be made on the rescue disk, but it's read-only.

5. Type Exit to exit the root shell. Type reboot to restart the machine in a normal mode.

If you don't exit the shell first, reboot would be ignored with error "running in chroot, ignoring request"