prohibit a unit (service or target) from automatic start - disable vs mask.txt

man systemctl
       mask UNIT...
           Mask one or more units, as specified on the command line. This will link these unit
           files to /dev/null, making it impossible to start them. This is a stronger version of
           disable, since it prohibits all kinds of activation of the unit, including enablement
           and manual activation. Use this option with care. This honors the --runtime option to
           only mask temporarily until the next reboot of the system. The --now option may be used
           to ensure that the units are also stopped. This command expects valid unit names only,
           it does not accept unit file paths.

       unmask UNIT...
           Unmask one or more unit files, as specified on the command line. This will undo the
           effect of mask. This command expects valid unit names only, it does not accept unit
           file paths.

       enable UNIT..., enable PATH...
           Enable one or more units or unit instances. This will create a set of symlinks, as
           encoded in the "[Install]" sections of the indicated unit files. After the symlinks
           have been created, the system manager configuration is reloaded (in a way equivalent to
           daemon-reload), in order to ensure the changes are taken into account immediately. Note
           that this does not have the effect of also starting any of the units being enabled. If
           this is desired, combine this command with the --now switch, or invoke start with
           appropriate arguments later. Note that in case of unit instance enablement (i.e.
           enablement of units of the form foo@bar.service), symlinks named the same as instances
           are created in the unit configuration directory, however they point to the single
           template unit file they are instantiated from.

       disable UNIT...
           Disables one or more units. This removes all symlinks to the unit files backing the
           specified units from the unit configuration directory, and hence undoes any changes
           made by enable or link. Note that this removes all symlinks to matching unit files,
           including manually created symlinks, and not just those actually created by enable or
           link. Note that while disable undoes the effect of enable, the two commands are
           otherwise not symmetric, as disable may remove more symlinks than a prior enable
           invocation of the same unit created.

