General regular expression parser

GREP(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                         GREP(1)

NAME
       grep, egrep, fgrep - print lines matching a pattern

SYNOPSIS
       grep [OPTIONS] PATTERN [FILE...]
       grep [OPTIONS] -e PATTERN ... [FILE...]
       grep [OPTIONS] -f FILE ... [FILE...]

DESCRIPTION
       grep  searches  for  PATTERN  in  each  FILE.   A  FILE  of “-” stands for standard input.  If no FILE is given,
       recursive searches examine the working directory, and nonrecursive searches read standard  input.   By  default,
       grep prints the matching lines.

       In  addition,  the  variant  programs  egrep and fgrep are the same as grep -E and grep -F, respectively.  These
       variants are deprecated, but are provided for backward compatibility.


   Matcher Selection
       -E, --extended-regexp
              Interpret PATTERN as an extended regular expression (ERE, see below).

       -F, --fixed-strings
              Interpret PATTERN as a list of fixed strings (instead of regular expressions), separated by newlines, any
              of which is to be matched.

       -G, --basic-regexp
              Interpret PATTERN as a basic regular expression (BRE, see below).  This is the default.

       -P, --perl-regexp
              Interpret  the  pattern as a Perl-compatible regular expression (PCRE).  This is experimental and grep -P
              may warn of unimplemented features.
   Matching Control
       -e PATTERN, --regexp=PATTERN
              Use PATTERN as the pattern.  If this option is used multiple times or is combined with  the  -f  (--file)
              option, search for all patterns given.  This option can be used to protect a pattern beginning with “-”.

       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore case distinctions, so that characters that differ only in case match each other.

       -v, --invert-match
              Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.
              
       -r, --recursive
              Read all files under each directory, recursively, following symbolic  links  only  if  they  are  on  the
              command  line.   Note  that  if  no  file operand is given, grep searches the working directory.  This is
              equivalent to the -d recurse option.



   Context Line Control
       -A NUM, --after-context=NUM
              Print NUM lines of trailing context after matching lines.  Places a line  containing  a  group  separator
              (described under --group-separator) between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching
              option, this has no effect and a warning is given.

       -B NUM, --before-context=NUM
              Print NUM lines of leading context before matching lines.  Places a line  containing  a  group  separator
              (described under --group-separator) between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching
              option, this has no effect and a warning is given.